For: http://oshug.org/event/38

Event #38 --- Energy (Exploring "open" in energy, Electricity from Woodchips, OpenTRV)

On the 19 February 2015, 17:30 - 20:00 at BCS London, 1st Floor, The Davidson Building, 5 Southampton Street, London, WC2E 7HA, [map] (51.510812, -0.121733)

The thirty-eighth meeting will take a look open source technologies in support of the generation and efficient use of energy.


Scratching the itch: saving the planet

When BigCo and .gov are not sorting your problem then open everything makes it easier for you to scratch your own itch, especially with the very positive innovation support around right now, possibly the best for 30 years. And when you can save the planet, be your own boss, and meet and work with lots of fabulous interesting people, what's holding you back?

Damon Hart-Davis is lead on the OpenTRV open source project created following his 2012 presentation to DECC's smart heating workshop. He has freelanced in technology for over 30 years, delivering mission-critical products from design to BAU in the City for more than 20 of those, and has founded and been involved in several start-ups over that time with his creations seen on TV, the Web, and his pioneering Internet Service Provider helping crack open that market more than 20 years ago. A previous virtual/on-line credit-card company start-up that he co-founded as CTO, Ixaris, turns over ~GBP10m.

Mark Hill spent 15 years in the City after a solid grounding in IT at the chip level at the microprocessor manufacturer Inmos, designing and delivering highly complex systems. Project management, direction and governance are all part of his toolkit. He now speaks regularly about innovation, collaboration and IoT. Recently he founded a mobile phone software start-up and is now OpenTRV Ltd's co-founder.





Why are we interested in space heating, IoT and smart grid?

Open + social mission == a lot of love and a fair amount of practical support (help, advice, even cash).

How to operate with other players who are not fully open?

What things can't we be fully open about?

How to reserve enough of the market to make "bazillions" without compromising "open" and the social goal?

Is government funding a "cancer" or a very useful stepping stone given our experience of Climate-KIC and Innovate UK all positive?





OpenTRV main site: http://opentrv.org.uk/

IoT Launchpad pitch: http://www.earth.org.uk/OpenTRV/talks/pitches/20141119-opentrv-iotlaunchpad-pitch.pdf